---
prev: true
next: true
description: 如何为插件创建 Configurable Company 类别，以及如何使用这些类别。
---

# 使用 Configurable Company 开发类别

## 什么是类别

Categories are another way to organize your configurations, like [configuration pages](/dev/apis/configurable-company/developing-pages.md) they don't modify how configurations work however they will allow players to focus on what configurations they want to change, specially when there are many configurations.

## 创建类别

Categories are used to organize your configuration in a folder-like structure so that the final user can easily navigate the menu. These are symbolic and do not change the behavior of the configurations at all.

To create a category is as simple as calling `LethalConfiguration.CreateCategory`. You can choose to provide an ID right from the start or later, however all categories must contain an unique ID.

**IDs** must be lowercase, contain only letters, numbers, hypens `-` and underscores `_`. I'd recommend to make your IDs look something like `owner_your-plugin-name_category-name`.

Here is an example on how you can create a category:

:::info
If you don't know what a parameter does, check [parameters](#parameters) section.
:::

```csharp
ConfigurationCategory sampleCategory = LethalConfiguration.CreateCategory()
                .SetID("developer_some-mod_sample-category")
                .SetName("Sample category")
                .SetPage(ConfigurationPage) // 可选
                .SetColorRGB(255, 0, 0) // 可选
                .HideIfEmpty(false) // 可选
                .Build();
```

:::tip
It's not necesary to call `Build()` if you are assigning the builder to a `ConfigurationCategory` as it will implicitly call the build method to create the category.
:::

## 参数

- `SetID(string)`: The unique ID of the category.
- `SetName(string)`: The name that will be displayed on the in-game menu.
- `SetColor(Color[white])`: (There are multiples methods to set the color. choose the prefered one based on your preferences) Sets the color of the category panel in the in-game menu.
- `HideIfEmpty(bool[true])`: Marks the category to not be displayed at all if there are no configurations inside this category.
- `SetPage(ConfigurationPage)`: Makes this category go listed on the provided page. One is generated by default but I encourage you to create a page for your mod.

`Build()` will create the category. It will not be created until the method is called (However as mentioned above, the method will called automatically if you assign the creation to a category).

:::warning
Once the `Build()` is called, you will <u>**not**</u> be able to modify the category any further.
:::

## 使用类别

To use a defined category, you must store the variable with the `ConfigurationCategory` and assign your configurations to it.

You also have the option to get a category from it's ID, allowing you to even get categories declared in other plugins.

```csharp
string categoryId = "some-mod_category";
if (LethalConfiguration.TryGetCategory(categoryId, out ConfigurationCategory category)) {
    // 如果类别存在，你就可以使用它
} else {
    // 如果该类别不存在，你可能需要创建它
}
```

:::tip
You can declare categories as `internal static readonly` variables to access them anywhere in your project.
:::
